How-To edits: Backup/restore (#62)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/backup-and-restore/pg-dump-and-restore.md

# Logical backups with `pg_dump`  and  `pg_restore` [](pg_dump-pg_restore)

> You can ackup and restore an entire database or individual hypertables using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can backup and restore an [entire database](#anchor) or [individual hypertables](#anchor) using the
```

native PostgreSQL [`pg_dump`][pg_dump] and [`pg_restore`][pg_restore] commands.

<highlight type="tip">
Upgrades between different versions of TimescaleDB can be done in place; you
don't need to backup and restore your data. See the [upgrading
instructions](/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/update-timescaledb/).
</highlight>

## Back up your entire database
You can perform a backup using the `pg_dump` command at the command prompt. For example, to backup a database named `exampledb`:

```bash
pg_dump -Fc -f exampledb.bak exampledb
```

<highlight type="warning">

> Do not use the `pg_dump` command to backup individual hypertables. Dumps created using this method lack the necessary information to correctly restore the hypertable from backup.

Reviewer: This simplifies the content on the left quite a bit, which isn't bad, but it does feel like we're leaving something out here. In essence, the previous content was saying, "if you backup and restore TimescaleDB with `pg_dump`, it must always be restored to a PostgreSQL database running the **same** version of TimescaleDB before upgrading to a newer release of the extension."

Is it worth adding something like this in here?

Author: I say that in more detail under the Troubleshooting heading. Adding that info here seems like we'd be conflating two different ideas. Here in the admon, we have the idea of backing up individual hypertables, where later on we deal with the idea of version mismatches.

Reviewer: Maybe my overall point is that separating these two actions means that somone could theoretically read the section on backing up, do that for some period of time without restoring (bad practice, I know... but...) and then when they are in trouble and try to restore, it doesn't work and they're left in sticky situation. In truth, it's not the biggest, biggest deal, but _maybe_ if we said upfront that, "hey, you need to always keep track of what Postgres and TimescaleDB version you're on in case you need to restore to the exact same version..." - folks would be more inclined to keep track fo that?

I mean, in theory it's a moot point with David's tool and `pg_dump` isn't/shouldn't be your main backup mechanism, but that's where my thinking is at with it.

Author: OK, that's a fair point. I'll have a play with it and see what I can come up with.

</highlight>

## Restore your entire database from backup
When you need to restore data from a backup, you can use `psql` to create a new database and restore the data.

### Procedure: Restoring an entire database from backup
1.  In `pgsql`, create a new database to restore to, and connect to it:
    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE exampledb;
    \c exampledb
    CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS timescaledb;
    SELECT timescaledb_pre_restore();
    ```
1.  Restore the database:
    ```sql
    \! pg_restore -Fc -d exampledb exampledb.bak
    SELECT timescaledb_post_restore();
    ```

### Troubleshoot version mismatches

> The PostgreSQL `pg_dump` command does not allow you to specify which version of

Reviewer: These two paragraphs needs some work to reduce duplication and redundancy. It does feel, to me, that these warnings are important enough that we should address them upfront. I mean, in theory folks aren't doing a backup and then ignoring the rest of the article... but people are lazy and it would be easy to miss this important point in my opinion.

At some point we also need to document David's backup tool, which has been on my plate for a long time. ☹️ 

https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-backup

Author: > These two paragraphs needs some work to reduce duplication and redundancy. It does feel, to me, that these warnings are important enough that we should address them upfront. I mean, in theory folks aren't doing a backup and then ignoring the rest of the article... but people are lazy and it would be easy to miss this important point in my opinion.

I can see the point, but surely you would only need this info if you ran into an error with the backup/restore? In which case, you'd come looking for troubleshooting info?

> 
> At some point we also need to document David's backup tool, which has been on my plate for a long time. ☹️
> 
> https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-backup

New issue: https://github.com/timescale/docs/issues/97

the extension to use when backing up. This can create problems if you have a
more recent version installed. For example, if you create the backup using an
older version of TimescaleDB, and when you restore it uses the current version,
without giving you an opportunity to upgrade first.

> You can work around this problem when you are restoring from backup, if you restore to a restore to a PostgreSQL instance with the same extension version as the original database before you perform the restore. After the data is restored, you can upgrade the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can work around this problem when you are restoring from backup by making sure the new PostgreSQL instance has the same extension version as the original database before you perform the restore. After the data is restored, you can upgrade the version of TimescaleDB.
```
